Bibliography
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts 1982-2012 Combined File [United
States]

This bibliography includes published and unpublished works that are related 
to ICPSR study 35596. It includes works that are based on primary
or secondary analysis of the data, or which describe or critique those
data or the collection methodology. 

If you publish a work or know of other works that are based on these data,
please send the complete citation and name of the ICPSR study used to:
icpsr-biblio-notify@umich.edu 


1. AMS Planning & Research Corp., "Summary Report: 12 Local Surveys of
Public Participation in the Arts." Research Division Report # 26.
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, 1993.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-26.pdf

2. AMS Planning & Research Corporation, "American Participation in
Theater." Research Division Report #35. Santa Ana, CA: National Endowment
for the Arts, 1996.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/American-Participation-in-Theater.pdf
In Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPAs) conducted in 1982,
1985, and 1992 by the U. S. Census Bureau, randomly-selected interview
subjects (age 18+) were asked a series of questions relating to their
participation in the arts through attendance at live performances, exposure
via mass media, personal participation in the arts, interest in attending
more often, childhood exposure to the arts, and related topics. This report
focuses exclusively on participation in stage plays. U.S. participation in
theater or "non-musical" stage plays increased from 11.9% of all adults in
1982 to 13.5% in 1992--an increase of 13.4% and the largest among the seven
benchmark categories studied (jazz, classical music, opera, musicals,
plays, dance, and visual arts). This analysis also examines the theater
audience and its characteristics, and explores the dynamic forces shaping
theater participation. Changes in producing and touring activity are
discussed, as well as the evolving nature of the art form itself. (MM)

3. AMS Planning and Reseach Corporation, "A Practical Guide to Arts
Participation Researh." Research Division Report #30. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, 1995.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-30.pdf

4. Abreu, Dan; Friedman, Andrea; Logan, Catrina; Reinhart, Kay; Ziff,
Charles, "Survey of Public Participation in the Arts: Musical Theater,
Operetta, and Opera Attendees." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, Apr 1, 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED289760.pdf
Research presented in this report focuses on data obtained through the 1982
and 1985 "Survey of Public Participation in the Arts" and relates to
musical theater, operetta, and opera attendance. The objectives of this
study were to focus on those findings which might help opera or musical
theater organizations attract and understand attendees and to present the
findings in an accessible and useful format. Data are presented in
categories representing attendance, attendees' backgrounds, arts
participation, and attendees' lifestyles. Compiled data on musical theater,
operetta, and opera attendees are examined according to those who reported
attending in the most recent year studied: (1) a musical stage play,
operetta, or opera; (2) a performing arts activity that was not a musical
stage play, operetta, or opera; (3) a musical stage play, operetta, or
opera both in live performances and through radio, television, or
recordings; and (4) other forms of arts activities only, but listened to
musical stage plays, operettas, or operas on radio, television, or
recordings. Data are also examined concerning those persons who reported no
attendance at a performing arts activity, an art museum, or an art gallery,
and demographic factors affecting attendees and non-attendees are
described. Numerous tables are included. (JHP)

5. Andreasen, Alan R., "Expanding the Audience for the Performing Arts."
Research Division Report #24. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, 1991.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-24.pdf
Becoming involved in the arts is a process that involves movement through
several stages, from disinterest to active attendance at and enthusiasm for
performing arts events. Since target consumers at any time will differ in
their placement on this continuum, marketing programs to expand arts
audiences must first identify where each target segment is and then
motivate that group to move to the next stage. A six-stage model, labelled
the "Performing Arts Adoption Process," is a first approximation of this
process. Data from the survey of Public Participation in the Arts are used
to test the model and explore its implications. Detailed comparisons of
consumers at adjacent stages in the process, using both bivariate and
multivariate analytic techniques, appear to support both the validity and
the usefulness of the model to both arts managers and future researchers in
the field. (AEM)

6. Aschaffenburg, Karen; Maas, Ineke, "Cultural and educational careers:
The dynamics of social reproduction." American Sociological Review. Aug
1997, 62, (4), 573 - 587.
Full text: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2657427

7. Ateca Amestoy, Victoria M., "El capital humano como determinante del
consumo cultural [Human capital as a determinant of cultural consumption.
With English summary]." Estudios de Economia Aplicada. Apr 2009, 27, (1),
89 - 112.
Full text: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2657427

8. Ateca Amestoy, Victoria Maria, "El capital humano como determinante del
consumo cultural." Estudios de Economia Aplicada. 2009, 27, 89 - 112.
Full text: RePEc:lrk:eeaart:27_1_17

9. Ateca-Amestoy, Victoria, "Determining heterogeneous behavior for theater
attendance." Journal of Cultural Economics. Jun 2008, 32, (2), 127 - 151.
DOI: 10.1007/s10824-008-9065-z
Full text: RePEc:lrk:eeaart:27_1_17

10. Ateca-Amestoy, Victoria; Castiglione, Concetta, "The consumption of
cultural goods through the internet. How is it affected by the digital
divide?." ACEI Working Paper Series. No AWP-04-2016, Association for
Cultural Economics International, May 2016.
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

11. Ateca-Amestoy, Victoria; Prieto-Rodriguez, Juan, "Forecasting accuracy
of behavioural models for participation in the arts." European Journal of
Operational Research. Aug 16, 2013, 229, (1), 124.
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

12. Auslander, Philip, "No-shows: The head count from the NEA." TDR: The
Drama Review. Spr 2005, 49, (1), 5 - 9.
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

13. Bauerlein, Mark, "The new bibliophobes." In The Dumbest Generation: How
the Digital Age Stupefies Young Americans and Jeopardizes Our Future (or,
Don't Trust Anyone Under 30). 39 - 69, London: Penguin Books, Ltd.,2008.
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

14. Bauerlein, Mark; Munson, Lynn; Prehoda, Lauren; Stotsky, Sandra;
Greene, Jay P.; O'Connor, Erin, "To read or not to read: Responses to the
new NEA study." Academic Questions. 2008, 195-220. DOI: 10.1007/s12129-008-
9055-9
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

15. Beach, Richard; Bigelow, Martha; Dillon, Deborah; Dockter, Jessie;
Galda, Lee; Helman, Lori; Kapoor, Richa; Ngo, Bic; O'Brien, David; Sato,
Mistilina; Scharber, Cassie; Jorgensen, Karen; Liang, Lauren; Braaksma,
Martine; Janssen, Tanja, "Annotated Bibliography of Research in the
Teaching of English." Research in the Teaching of English. Nov 2009, 44,
(2), 210 - 241.
Abstract: http://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:cue:wpaper:awp-04-2016
Full text PDF: http://www.culturaleconomics.org/awp/AWP-04-2016.pdf
Cultural engagement through the internet is becoming a more popular way of
cultural participation, as computers and mobile devices are the outlet for
more cultural experiences. On the one hand, this may help to access a wider
variety of cultural contents in the form of digital goods. On the other
hand, the digital divide could further exacerbate the stratification of
cultural consumption. Using data from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts for the United States, we explain the
determinants of cultural participation through digital engagement for
highbrow and lowbrow cultural activities, explicitly accounting for the
selection in the sample of internet users. Our results suggest different
determinants of these two categories, especially for the role played by age
and education.

16. Bergonzi, Louis; Smith, Julia, "Effects of Arts Education on
Participation in the Arts." Research Division Report #36. Santa Ana, CA:
National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division
, 1996.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-36.pdf

17. Blau, Judith R., "The context of art attendance: The primary sampling
units as the unit of aggregation." Social Science Quarterly. Dec 1988, 69,
(4), 930 - 941.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-36.pdf

18. Blau, Judith R.; Quets, Gail A., "The Geography of Arts Participation:
Report on the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts."
Final Report. New York, NY: Columbia University, The Center for the Social
Sciences, Mar 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED289762.pdf
This study's primary purpose was to examine how geographical
characteristics and cultural supply influence individual participation in
arts related activities in the United States. Data for the study were
extracted from the 1982 and 1985 "Survey of Public Participation in the
Arts." Research efforts were based upon the inference that geographic
differences lead to inequalities in the supply of cultural opportunities,
and this factor may outweigh differences in attitudes or values in relation
to arts participation. Geographical factors relating to specific U.S.
regions, subregions, and urban and metropolitan areas were investigated.
Results indicated that: (1) arts participation did not increase in any
region between 1982 and 1985; (2) the greatest variation in arts
participation exists in the south; (3) when demographic characteristics of
a region are considered, regional differences are reduced; (4) supply and
planning policies may account for high levels of participation in some
metropolitan areas, while low participation may relate to poor
transportation and parking facilities; (5) educational levels and number of
adults who have never married are positive factors in metropolitan areas;
and (6) social inequality has detrimental effects on the supply of and
demand for art activities. Appendices list large cities within specific
geographic areas and provide computer results relating to the study. (JHP)

19. Blume-Kohout, Margaret E.; Leonard, Sara R.; Novak-Leonard, Jennifer
L., "When going gets tough: Barriers and motivations affecting arts
attendance." In Santiago, Nicole L., Arts Attendance in the Nation:
Barriers, Motivations, and Survey of Arts Participation. Fine Arts, Music
and Literature. 1 - 82, Hauppauge, NY: Nova Science Publishers, Inc,2015.
Abstract: https://novapublishers.com/shop/arts-attendance-in-the-nation-barriers-motivations-and-survey-of-arts-participation/

20. Borgonovi, Francesca, "Performing arts attendance: An economic
approach." Applied Economics. 2004, 36, 1871 - 1885. DOI:
10.1080/0003684042000264010
Abstract: https://novapublishers.com/shop/arts-attendance-in-the-nation-barriers-motivations-and-survey-of-arts-participation/

21. Borgonovi, Francesca, "Public Policy and the Performing Arts: Intended
and Unintended Consequences of Public Subsidies." Dissertation, London
School of Economics and Political Science, 2005.
Abstract: https://novapublishers.com/shop/arts-attendance-in-the-nation-barriers-motivations-and-survey-of-arts-participation/

22. Boyle, Melissa; Chiou, Lesley, "The effect of ticket resale laws on
consumption and production in performing arts markets." Eastern Economic
Journal. Spr 2012, 38, (2), 210 - 222. DOI: 10.1057/eej.2011.3
Abstract: https://novapublishers.com/shop/arts-attendance-in-the-nation-barriers-motivations-and-survey-of-arts-participation/

23. Brisson, Romain, "Back to the original omnivore: On the artefactual
nature of Peterson's thesis of omnivorousness." Poetics. in press 2019,.
DOI: 10.1016/j.poetic.2019.03.004
Abstract: https://novapublishers.com/shop/arts-attendance-in-the-nation-barriers-motivations-and-survey-of-arts-participation/

24. Brown, Alan S.; Novak-Leonard, Jennifer L.;Gilbride, Shelly, "Getting
In on the Act: How Arts Groups Are Creating Opportunities for Active
Participation." San Francisco, CA: The James Irvine Foundation, Oct 2011.
Abstract: https://www.irvine.org/arts/what-were-learning/getting-in-on-the-act
Full text: https://irvine-dot-org.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/12/attachments/GettingInOntheAct2014_DEC3.pdf?1418669613

25. Calkins, Thomas, "Stratification and taste in music in the US: Evidence
from the 2012 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts." Presented at the
American Sociological Association Annual Meeting, San Francisco, CA, 2014.
Abstract: https://www.irvine.org/arts/what-were-learning/getting-in-on-the-act
Full text: https://irvine-dot-org.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/12/attachments/GettingInOntheAct2014_DEC3.pdf?1418669613

26. Cherbo, Joni Maya; Peters, Monnie, "American Participation in Opera and
Musical Theater, 1992." Research Division Report #32. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, 1995.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-32.pdf
Data gleaned from the 1982, 1985, and 1992 Surveys of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPAs) were used in this analysis of participation in opera
and musical theater/operetta. Findings indicate that opera is the least
popular of the fine arts, being the least frequented and the least selected
as an activity respondents would like to attend more frequently. Opera
attendees are more likely than other arts' attendee groups to attend all
other fine arts activities, and show a significant interest in more types
of music than any other arts attendee group. There is a strong relationship
between early general arts education and adult opera attendance. Opera
attendees are predominantly white, better educated, wealthier, and somewhat
older than other art goers, but younger persons are attending in about the
same proportions in 1992 as in 1982. More persons watch or listen to opera
on the media than attend live performances. Findings of musical
theater/operetta participation indicates that attendance of these forms of
theater is second to attendance of art museums. Musical theater/operettas'
primary appeal is live performance. Many more individuals indicated that
they would attend musical theater performances if cost and accessibility
were not issues. The report includes tables and appendices. (MM)

27. Christin, Angele, "Gender and highbrow cultural participation in the
United States." Poetics. Oct 2012, 40, (5), 423 - 443. DOI:
10.1016/j.poetic.2012.07.003
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-32.pdf
Data gleaned from the 1982, 1985, and 1992 Surveys of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPAs) were used in this analysis of participation in opera
and musical theater/operetta. Findings indicate that opera is the least
popular of the fine arts, being the least frequented and the least selected
as an activity respondents would like to attend more frequently. Opera
attendees are more likely than other arts' attendee groups to attend all
other fine arts activities, and show a significant interest in more types
of music than any other arts attendee group. There is a strong relationship
between early general arts education and adult opera attendance. Opera
attendees are predominantly white, better educated, wealthier, and somewhat
older than other art goers, but younger persons are attending in about the
same proportions in 1992 as in 1982. More persons watch or listen to opera
on the media than attend live performances. Findings of musical
theater/operetta participation indicates that attendance of these forms of
theater is second to attendance of art museums. Musical theater/operettas'
primary appeal is live performance. Many more individuals indicated that
they would attend musical theater performances if cost and accessibility
were not issues. The report includes tables and appendices. (MM)

28. Christin, Angele, "Le role de la socialisation artistique durant
l'enfance: Genre et pratiques culturelles legitimes aux Etats-Unis [The
role of artistic socialization during childhood: Gender and legitimate
cultural practices in the US]." Reseaux. 2011, 4-5, (168/169), 59 - 86.
DOI: 10.3917/res.169.0059
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-32.pdf
Data gleaned from the 1982, 1985, and 1992 Surveys of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPAs) were used in this analysis of participation in opera
and musical theater/operetta. Findings indicate that opera is the least
popular of the fine arts, being the least frequented and the least selected
as an activity respondents would like to attend more frequently. Opera
attendees are more likely than other arts' attendee groups to attend all
other fine arts activities, and show a significant interest in more types
of music than any other arts attendee group. There is a strong relationship
between early general arts education and adult opera attendance. Opera
attendees are predominantly white, better educated, wealthier, and somewhat
older than other art goers, but younger persons are attending in about the
same proportions in 1992 as in 1982. More persons watch or listen to opera
on the media than attend live performances. Findings of musical
theater/operetta participation indicates that attendance of these forms of
theater is second to attendance of art museums. Musical theater/operettas'
primary appeal is live performance. Many more individuals indicated that
they would attend musical theater performances if cost and accessibility
were not issues. The report includes tables and appendices. (MM)

29. Christin, Angele; Coulangeon, Philippe; Donnat, Olivier, "Cultural
participation, cohort effects, and higher education (1981-2012)." Notes &
Documents de l'OSC, No. 2016-02. SciencesPo, Observatoire Sociologique du
Changement, Mar 2016.
Full text PDF: http://www.sciencespo.fr/osc/sites/sciencespo.fr.osc/files/nd_2016_02.pdf

30. Citro, Constance F., "Craft-Artists in the United States: A Portrait."
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Mar 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287765.pdf
While interest in crafts has grown in recent years, relatively few persons
earn all or part of their livelihood from craft production. A craft artist
profile was constructed using the: (1) 1980 Survey of Members of Craft
Organizations; (2) 1980 Survey of Subscribers; (3) 1980 Survey of Sellers
and Exhibitors; (4) 1979 Ethnographic Studies of Folk-Artists; and (5) 1982
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts. Craft organization members have
a different demographic and socioeconomic profile from the general adult
population. Fifty-five percent work on a vocational basis, while 45 percent
pursue crafts as leisure activities. Generally, craft-artists who subscribe
to craft publications that are not published by craft membership
organizations plan to take more craft training and desire to learn business
skills. Profit-oriented craftsmen are concerned about their lack of craft
knowledge, markets, and personal recognition. Leisure time concerns of
craft-artists include pressures from non-craft obligations, lack of
training, and material costs. In order to understand both folk and avant-
garde craft-artists, their work must be studied within the contexts of
cultural heritage, time periods, and ethnic backgrounds. Figures are
included. Appendices include the 1980 Survey of Members of Craft
Organizations' questionnaire and selected quotations from vocational and
leisure folk artists. (JHP)

31. Cohen, M.; Gajendran, T.; Lloyd, J.; Maund, K.; Smith, C.; Bhim, S.;
Vaughan, J., Valuing Creative Placemaking: Development of a Toolkit for
Public and Private Stakeholders. Stage 1: Literature Review 2018.
Communities of Practice Collaborative Project. Sydney, Australia: New South
Wales Government; Landcom, 2018.
Full text PDF: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Cathy_Smith22/publication/326531809_Valuing_creative_placemaking_development_of_a_toolkit_for_public_and_private_stakeholders%27_Communities_of_Practice_Collaborative_Project_Stage_1/links/5b529baaa6fdcc8dae343477/Valuing-creative-placemaking-development-of-a-toolkit-for-public-and-private-stakeholders-Communities-of-Practice-Collaborative-Project-Stage-1.pdf

32. Coon, Erin L., "Young Adults and Nonprofit Arts and Culture
Organizations: A Generational Change Analysis." Dissertation, Capella
University, 2018.
Full text PDF: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Cathy_Smith22/publication/326531809_Valuing_creative_placemaking_development_of_a_toolkit_for_public_and_private_stakeholders%27_Communities_of_Practice_Collaborative_Project_Stage_1/links/5b529baaa6fdcc8dae343477/Valuing-creative-placemaking-development-of-a-toolkit-for-public-and-private-stakeholders-Communities-of-Practice-Collaborative-Project-Stage-1.pdf

33. DeVeaux, Scott, "Jazz in America: Who's Listening?." Research Division
Report #31. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Research
Division, 1995.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/jazz-america-whos-listening
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-31.pdf
This study provides an examination of the American audience for jazz
through analysis of statistics from the 1982 and 1992 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts (SPPA). The study interprets the statistical
results of the 1982 and 1992 SPPA's in light of changes that occured in the
jazz field over this time period.

34. DiMaggio, Paul; Mukhtar, Toqir, "Arts participation as cultural capital
in the United States, 1982-2002: Signs of decline?." Poetics. Apr 2004, 32,
(2), 169 - 194. DOI: 10.1016/j.poetic.2004.02.005
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/jazz-america-whos-listening
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-31.pdf
This study provides an examination of the American audience for jazz
through analysis of statistics from the 1982 and 1992 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts (SPPA). The study interprets the statistical
results of the 1982 and 1992 SPPA's in light of changes that occured in the
jazz field over this time period.

35. DiMaggio, Paul; Ostrower, Francie, "Participation in the Arts by Black
and White Americans." Social Forces. Mar 1990, 68, (3), 753 - 778.
Full text: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2579352

36. DiMaggio, Paul; Ostrower, Francie, "Race, Ethnicity and Participation
in the Arts: Patterns of Participation by Black, Hispanic and White
Americans in Selected Activities from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts." Research Division Report #25. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, 1992.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED293759.pdf
This report utilizes data from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts to describe differences in patterns of
participation in selected arts related activities by Black, Hispanic, and
White respondents. Arts participation by Whites is greatest for all
selected activities, except for Black attendance at jazz music activities.
For most activities, absolute differences are relatively small, and net
differences between Blacks and Whites are more marked for visually oriented
art than for performing arts activities. Hispanics participate at rates
similar to those of socioeconomically comparable Whites. Differences
associated with race are small compared to those associated with
educational attainment, income, occupational prestige, and gender; and
socioeconomic factors are principal participation barriers for Blacks and
Hispanics. Intergroup differences are smaller for younger than for older
respondents and appear to be the result of an increase in the number of
years of schooling of younger Black and Hispanic respondents. Suggestions
for further research are offered, and an appendix contains tables of the
surveys' statistical data. (JHP)

37. Dinces, Sean, "The attrition of the common fan: Class, spectatorship,
and major league stadiums in postwar America." Social Science History. Sum
2016, 40, (2), 339 - 365.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED293759.pdf
This report utilizes data from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts to describe differences in patterns of
participation in selected arts related activities by Black, Hispanic, and
White respondents. Arts participation by Whites is greatest for all
selected activities, except for Black attendance at jazz music activities.
For most activities, absolute differences are relatively small, and net
differences between Blacks and Whites are more marked for visually oriented
art than for performing arts activities. Hispanics participate at rates
similar to those of socioeconomically comparable Whites. Differences
associated with race are small compared to those associated with
educational attainment, income, occupational prestige, and gender; and
socioeconomic factors are principal participation barriers for Blacks and
Hispanics. Intergroup differences are smaller for younger than for older
respondents and appear to be the result of an increase in the number of
years of schooling of younger Black and Hispanic respondents. Suggestions
for further research are offered, and an appendix contains tables of the
surveys' statistical data. (JHP)

38. Dumais, Susan A., "The cultural practices of first-generation college
graduates: The role of childhood cultural exposure." Poetics. in press
2019,. DOI: 10.1016/j.poetic.2019.101378
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED293759.pdf
This report utilizes data from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts to describe differences in patterns of
participation in selected arts related activities by Black, Hispanic, and
White respondents. Arts participation by Whites is greatest for all
selected activities, except for Black attendance at jazz music activities.
For most activities, absolute differences are relatively small, and net
differences between Blacks and Whites are more marked for visually oriented
art than for performing arts activities. Hispanics participate at rates
similar to those of socioeconomically comparable Whites. Differences
associated with race are small compared to those associated with
educational attainment, income, occupational prestige, and gender; and
socioeconomic factors are principal participation barriers for Blacks and
Hispanics. Intergroup differences are smaller for younger than for older
respondents and appear to be the result of an increase in the number of
years of schooling of younger Black and Hispanic respondents. Suggestions
for further research are offered, and an appendix contains tables of the
surveys' statistical data. (JHP)

39. Elpus, Kenneth, "Music education promotes lifelong engagement with the
arts." Psychology of Music. Mar 2018, 46, (2), 155 - 173. DOI:
10.1177/0305735617697508
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED293759.pdf
This report utilizes data from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts to describe differences in patterns of
participation in selected arts related activities by Black, Hispanic, and
White respondents. Arts participation by Whites is greatest for all
selected activities, except for Black attendance at jazz music activities.
For most activities, absolute differences are relatively small, and net
differences between Blacks and Whites are more marked for visually oriented
art than for performing arts activities. Hispanics participate at rates
similar to those of socioeconomically comparable Whites. Differences
associated with race are small compared to those associated with
educational attainment, income, occupational prestige, and gender; and
socioeconomic factors are principal participation barriers for Blacks and
Hispanics. Intergroup differences are smaller for younger than for older
respondents and appear to be the result of an increase in the number of
years of schooling of younger Black and Hispanic respondents. Suggestions
for further research are offered, and an appendix contains tables of the
surveys' statistical data. (JHP)

40. Garcia-Alvarez, Ercilia; Katz-Gerro, Tally; Lopez-Sintas, Jordi,
"Deconstructing cultural omnivorousness 1982-2002: Heterology in Americans'
musical preferences." Social Forces. Dec 2007, 86, (2), 417 - 443. DOI:
10.2307/20430748
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED293759.pdf
This report utilizes data from the 1982 and 1985 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts to describe differences in patterns of
participation in selected arts related activities by Black, Hispanic, and
White respondents. Arts participation by Whites is greatest for all
selected activities, except for Black attendance at jazz music activities.
For most activities, absolute differences are relatively small, and net
differences between Blacks and Whites are more marked for visually oriented
art than for performing arts activities. Hispanics participate at rates
similar to those of socioeconomically comparable Whites. Differences
associated with race are small compared to those associated with
educational attainment, income, occupational prestige, and gender; and
socioeconomic factors are principal participation barriers for Blacks and
Hispanics. Intergroup differences are smaller for younger than for older
respondents and appear to be the result of an increase in the number of
years of schooling of younger Black and Hispanic respondents. Suggestions
for further research are offered, and an appendix contains tables of the
surveys' statistical data. (JHP)

41. Garon, Rosaire, "The evolution of publics at artistic and cultural
events in Quebec and in the United States: A situation appraisal." In
Jacobi, Daniel; Luckerhoff, Jason; Bonaccorsi, Julia, Looking for Non-
publics. 49 - 70, Montreal, Quebec: Presses de l'Universite du Quebec,2012.
Abstract: http://muse.jhu.edu/books/9782760533721
Full text PDF: http://muse.jhu.edu/books/9782760533721/9782760533721-10.pdf

42. Graham, Carol; Chattopadhyay, Soumya; Lakhanpal, Jai Roberto, "Using
New Metrics to Assess the Role of the Arts in Well-Being: Some Initial
Results from the Economics of Happiness." Working Paper. Mar 2014.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/Brookings-Final-Report.pdf

43. Graham, Roderick, "The function of music education in the growth of
cultural openness in the USA." Music Education Research. Sep 2009, 11, (3),
283 - 302. DOI: 10.1080/14613800903144296
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/Brookings-Final-Report.pdf

44. Graham, Roderick S., "Class, Culture, or Both: Assessing Consumption
Patterns within Music and Technology." Dissertation, City University of New
York, 2010.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/Brookings-Final-Report.pdf

45. Gray, Charles M., "Turning On and Tuning In: Media Participation in the
Arts." Research Division Report #33. Washington, DC: National Endowment for
the Arts, 1995.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED406267.pdf
Data gleaned from the 1982, 1985, and 1992 Surveys of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPAs) were used in this analysis of participation in the arts
via television, radio, and sound recordings. The arts examined were jazz,
classical music, opera, musicals and operettas, plays, dance, and the
visual arts. Selected findings are as follows: (1) Arts participation
increases with age. (2) An aging population will increase arts
participation. (3) Arts participation increases with education. (4) Arts
participation rises with income. (5) Income plays a lesser role in
participation via the broadcast media than that of live performance
participation. (6) Urban residents are more likely to participate in the
arts than are rural residents. (7) Urban residence is not as important a
determinant of participation via the broadcast media and recordings as it
is for live performance participation. (8) Men are less likely to
participate in the arts than are women. (9) Whites are more likely to
participate in the arts than are other racial groups. Policy implications
supported by the findings include: (1) some television channels can be
dedicated to arts programming; (2) arts organizations may explore greater
use of videotapes and music videos for the cultures; and (3) educators can
further enhance exposure to the arts at all levels. Tables and appendices
are provided. (MM)

46. Gray, Charles M., "Turning On and Turning In: Media Participation in
the Arts." Research Division Report #33. Washington, DC: National Endowment
for the Arts, Research Division, 1995.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-33.pdf

47. Griffin, Larry J., "Give me that old-time music . . . or not ."
Southern Cultures. 2006, 12, (4), 98 - 107.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-33.pdf

48. Hall, Thomas W., "Determinants, Effects, and Funding of Arts
Consumption." Social Science Research Network, Aug 12, 2015. DOI:
10.2139/ssrn.2649721
Full text: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2649721

49. Hanford, Terry; Robinson, John P.; Dowden, Sue; Rosenberg, Florence,
"Cultural Participation in the Philadelphia Area." College Park, MD:
University of Maryland, Survey Research Center, Jun 1985.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED263028.pdf
Described are the results of two separate surveys of cross-sections of the
Philadelphia public concerning their cultural behavior, attitudes, and
perceptions. The more recent survey was conducted in 1984 with a random
telephone sample of 404 Philadelphia residents. The other survey consisted
of a subset of approximately 400 Philadelphia area residents who were part
of a larger national study conducted throughout 1982, the survey of Public
Participation in the Arts, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. Major
findings set forth in this report are as follows; the two surveys produced
similar estimates of the proportion of Philadelphia residents who had
attended various types of live cultural events in the prior year.
Participation was mainly related to the respondents' socio-economic status,
either in terms of formal education, occupational skill, or annual family
income. In both surveys, Philadelphia residents said they would like to
attend all types of cultural events more often, particularly musical and
non-musical plays, museums, musical performances, opera, and ballet.
Respondents reacted to seven action steps that might promote greater
attendance at cultural events. Of these, lower ticket prices, better
parking, and safer locations rated highest. Findings of these surveys
provide useful information for the Philadelphia area in promoting cultural
awareness and participation. (LP)

50. Harrison, Jill; Ryan, John, "Musical taste and ageing." Ageing and
Society. May 2010, 30, (4), 649 - 669.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED263028.pdf
Described are the results of two separate surveys of cross-sections of the
Philadelphia public concerning their cultural behavior, attitudes, and
perceptions. The more recent survey was conducted in 1984 with a random
telephone sample of 404 Philadelphia residents. The other survey consisted
of a subset of approximately 400 Philadelphia area residents who were part
of a larger national study conducted throughout 1982, the survey of Public
Participation in the Arts, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. Major
findings set forth in this report are as follows; the two surveys produced
similar estimates of the proportion of Philadelphia residents who had
attended various types of live cultural events in the prior year.
Participation was mainly related to the respondents' socio-economic status,
either in terms of formal education, occupational skill, or annual family
income. In both surveys, Philadelphia residents said they would like to
attend all types of cultural events more often, particularly musical and
non-musical plays, museums, musical performances, opera, and ballet.
Respondents reacted to seven action steps that might promote greater
attendance at cultural events. Of these, lower ticket prices, better
parking, and safer locations rated highest. Findings of these surveys
provide useful information for the Philadelphia area in promoting cultural
awareness and participation. (LP)

51. Hendon, R. Claude, "A Comparative Study of Leisure Activities of the
Elderly in the Community and in Nursing Homes." Presented at the Fifth
International Conference on Cultural Economics held at the Canada Council,
Association for Cultural Economics, Ottawa, Canada, Dec 31, 1988.
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/a-comparative-study-of-leisure-activities-of-the-elderly-in-the-community-and-in-nursing-homes

52. Hendon, R.Claude, "Arts participation: Comparing the elderly and non-
elderly." Journal of Cultural Economics. Jun 1992, 16, (1), 83 - 92. DOI:
10.1007/BF02275979
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/a-comparative-study-of-leisure-activities-of-the-elderly-in-the-community-and-in-nursing-homes

53. Hendon, William S., "Reading behaviors of the elderly: Leisure
activities decline, but reading goes on." Poetics. Dec 1989, 18, (6), 537 -
547. DOI: 10.1016/0304-422X(89)90011-9
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/a-comparative-study-of-leisure-activities-of-the-elderly-in-the-community-and-in-nursing-homes

54. Hernandez, Amanda Ditto, "Arts Access as an Issue of Social Justice:
The Role of Arts Education and Technology in Closing the Arts Access Gap."
Claremont Graduate University, 2018.
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/a-comparative-study-of-leisure-activities-of-the-elderly-in-the-community-and-in-nursing-homes

55. Horowitz, Harold, "A panel discussion: Measuring changes in national
cultural behavior patterns." Journal of Cultural Economics. 1990, 14, (1),
1 - 17. DOI: 10.1007/BF02268194
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/a-comparative-study-of-leisure-activities-of-the-elderly-in-the-community-and-in-nursing-homes

56. Horowitz, Harold, "The American Jazz Music Audience." Washington, DC:
National Jazz Service Organization, Sep 8, 1986.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED280757.pdf
This publication reports the findings of research carried out in
recognition of the need for an in-depth analysis of the U.S. jazz music
audience in order to identify and assess ways to shape the future of jazz
as part of the "Survey of Public Participation in The Arts" conducted in
1982. The research problem was to learn the size, characteristics, and
boundaries of the jazz music public. Following an executive summary of the
study and an introduction, the report is presented in nine chapters: (1)
"Size of the Jazz Music Audience"; (2) "Audience Characteristics"; (3)
"Performers of Jazz Music"; (4) "Performance Locations"; (5) "Residence
Locations of the Audience"; (6) "Audience Crossover"; (7) "Demand and
Barriers To Increased Attendance"; (8) "Number of Persons Who Like Jazz
Music"; and (9) "Characteristics of Persons Who Like Jazz Music." Included
are 19 tables related to the discussion. (KWL)

57. Horowitz, Harold; Keegan, Carol A.; Kempnich, Barbara, "Cultural
Participation and Geographic/Population Schema: From New York City to the
Rural Farm." Presented at the Fourth International Conference on Cultural
Economics, Avignon, France, May 12-13, 1986.
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/cultural-participation-and-geographicpopulation-schema-from-new-york-city-to-the-rural-farm

58. Iannetta, Adam Domenico, "The Impact of Expanded, Multimodal
Applications during a German Lied Performance." Thesis, University of
Western Ontario, 2019.
Abstract: https://ir.lib.uwo.ca/etd/6568

59. Ivanov, Rainer D., Reading at Risk: A Survey of Literary Reading in
America. New York, NY, USA: Nova, 2009.
Abstract: https://ir.lib.uwo.ca/etd/6568

60. Kaimal, Girija; Gonzaga, Adele M.L.; Schwachter, Victoria, "Crafting,
health and wellbeing: Findings from the Survey of Public Participation in
the Arts and considerations for art therapists." Arts and Health. 2017, 9,
(1), 81 - 90. DOI: 10.1080/17533015.2016.1185447
Abstract: https://ir.lib.uwo.ca/etd/6568

61. Kaimal, Girija; Rattigan, Michele; Miller, Gretchen; Haddy, Jennifer,
"Implications of national trends in digital media use for art therapy
practice." Journal of Clinical Art Therapy. 2016, 3, (1),.
Abstract: http://digitalcommons.lmu.edu/jcat/vol3/iss1/6/

62. Kalmijn, Matthijs; Kraaykamp, Gerbert, "Race, cultural capital, and
schooling: An analysis of trends in the United States." Sociology of
Education. Jan 1996, 69, (1), 22.
Full text: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2112721

63. Keegan, Carol, "Public Participation in Classical Ballet: A Special
Analysis of the Ballet Data Collected in the 1982 and 1985 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Apr 30, 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED288756.pdf
The 1982 and 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
produced a national audience profile for classical ballet and explored
factors that predispose participation in this art form. This monograph
analyzed data from these surveys in terms of: (1) audience size and
composition for live ballet performances; (2) television's role in exposing
the public to ballet; (3) childhood socialization experiences that tend to
encourage adult participation; (4) music preferences as they relate to
ballet; and (5) ballet audience growth potential and factors that inhibit
it. Findings indicated that 20 percent of the adult population participate
in ballet by attending live performances, watching it on television, or
dancing in a public performance. People most likely to attend ballet
performances are: (1) women; (2) between 25 and 44 years old; (3) living in
single-person households; (4) college educated; (5) living in households
annually earning more than $25,000; (6) living in or near an urban area;
and (7) in professional occupations or full-time students. Recommendations
focus on the importance of childhood arts education, strategies dance
companies might use to promote performances, and the need for ballet to be
produced on television. Numerous data tables and the SPPA questionnaire are
included. (JHP)

64. Kemp, Elyria; Poole, Sonja Martin, "Arts audiences: Establishing a
gateway to audience development and engagement." Journal of Arts
Management, Law, and Society. 2016, 46, (2), 53 - 62. DOI:
10.1080/10632921.2016.1150929
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED288756.pdf
The 1982 and 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
produced a national audience profile for classical ballet and explored
factors that predispose participation in this art form. This monograph
analyzed data from these surveys in terms of: (1) audience size and
composition for live ballet performances; (2) television's role in exposing
the public to ballet; (3) childhood socialization experiences that tend to
encourage adult participation; (4) music preferences as they relate to
ballet; and (5) ballet audience growth potential and factors that inhibit
it. Findings indicated that 20 percent of the adult population participate
in ballet by attending live performances, watching it on television, or
dancing in a public performance. People most likely to attend ballet
performances are: (1) women; (2) between 25 and 44 years old; (3) living in
single-person households; (4) college educated; (5) living in households
annually earning more than $25,000; (6) living in or near an urban area;
and (7) in professional occupations or full-time students. Recommendations
focus on the importance of childhood arts education, strategies dance
companies might use to promote performances, and the need for ballet to be
produced on television. Numerous data tables and the SPPA questionnaire are
included. (JHP)

65. Kirchberg, Volker, "Museum visitors and non-visitors in Germany: A
representative survey." Poetics. Nov 1996, 24, (2-4), 239 - 258. DOI:
10.1016/S0304-422X(96)00007-1
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED288756.pdf
The 1982 and 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
produced a national audience profile for classical ballet and explored
factors that predispose participation in this art form. This monograph
analyzed data from these surveys in terms of: (1) audience size and
composition for live ballet performances; (2) television's role in exposing
the public to ballet; (3) childhood socialization experiences that tend to
encourage adult participation; (4) music preferences as they relate to
ballet; and (5) ballet audience growth potential and factors that inhibit
it. Findings indicated that 20 percent of the adult population participate
in ballet by attending live performances, watching it on television, or
dancing in a public performance. People most likely to attend ballet
performances are: (1) women; (2) between 25 and 44 years old; (3) living in
single-person households; (4) college educated; (5) living in households
annually earning more than $25,000; (6) living in or near an urban area;
and (7) in professional occupations or full-time students. Recommendations
focus on the importance of childhood arts education, strategies dance
companies might use to promote performances, and the need for ballet to be
produced on television. Numerous data tables and the SPPA questionnaire are
included. (JHP)

66. Kirchberg, Volker; Kuchar, Robin, "States of comparability: A meta-
study of representative population surveys and studies on cultural
consumption." Poetics. Apr 2014, 43, 172 - 191. DOI:
10.1016/j.poetic.2014.01.005
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED288756.pdf
The 1982 and 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
produced a national audience profile for classical ballet and explored
factors that predispose participation in this art form. This monograph
analyzed data from these surveys in terms of: (1) audience size and
composition for live ballet performances; (2) television's role in exposing
the public to ballet; (3) childhood socialization experiences that tend to
encourage adult participation; (4) music preferences as they relate to
ballet; and (5) ballet audience growth potential and factors that inhibit
it. Findings indicated that 20 percent of the adult population participate
in ballet by attending live performances, watching it on television, or
dancing in a public performance. People most likely to attend ballet
performances are: (1) women; (2) between 25 and 44 years old; (3) living in
single-person households; (4) college educated; (5) living in households
annually earning more than $25,000; (6) living in or near an urban area;
and (7) in professional occupations or full-time students. Recommendations
focus on the importance of childhood arts education, strategies dance
companies might use to promote performances, and the need for ballet to be
produced on television. Numerous data tables and the SPPA questionnaire are
included. (JHP)

67. Klineberg, Stephen L.; Wu, Jie; Aldape, Celina L., "The Houston Arts
Survey: Participation, Perceptions and Prospects." Houston, TX: Kinder
Institute for Urban Research, Sep 2012.
Full text PDF: https://kinder.rice.edu/uploadedFiles/Center_for_the_Study_of_Houston/Kinder%20Houston%20Arts%20Survey%202012.pdf

68. Kracman, K., "The effect of school-based arts instruction on attendance
at museums and the performing arts." Poetics. 1996, 24, (2), 203 - 218.
DOI: 10.1016/S0304-422X(96)00009-5
Full text PDF: https://kinder.rice.edu/uploadedFiles/Center_for_the_Study_of_Houston/Kinder%20Houston%20Arts%20Survey%202012.pdf

69. Lambert, Patricia Dewey; Williams, Robyn, "The professionalization of
performing arts center management." In Lambert, Patricia Dewey; Williams,
Robyn, Performing Arts Center Management. New York, NY: Routledge,2017.
Full text PDF: https://kinder.rice.edu/uploadedFiles/Center_for_the_Study_of_Houston/Kinder%20Houston%20Arts%20Survey%202012.pdf

70. League of American Orchestras, "Audience Demographic Research Review."
New York, NY: americanorchestras.org, Dec 10, 2009.
Full text PDF: https://kinder.rice.edu/uploadedFiles/Center_for_the_Study_of_Houston/Kinder%20Houston%20Arts%20Survey%202012.pdf

71. Lehrman, Matt, "'Erosion of arts participation' is the WRONG headline."
Updated Oct 22, 2013, Accessed 2016-06-27 09:35:02.
Full text: http://www.artsjournal.com/audience/2013/10/erosion-of-arts-participation-is-the-wrong-headline/

72. Lemmon, Jack R., "American Dance 1992: Who's Watching? Who's Dancing?."
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, 1996.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398165.pdf
The Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPAs), funded by the
National Endowment for the Arts and conducted by the U.S. Bureau of the
Census, were undertaken in 1982, 1985, and 1992. This report is based on
the data collected by the SPPA surveys. Although data on dance genres other
than ballet were collected under the rubric "other dance," there was some
confusion among respondents as to the definition of "other dance." Selected
findings indicate: (1) Attendance at ballet performances, which rose from
4.2% to 4.7% of the adult population, is the second lowest rate of all
performing art forms. (2) If corrected for those individuals who yearly
attend only one ballet performance, such as the annual production of "The
Nutcracker," attendance rates drop to 1.25% of the adult population.
Attendance at ballet performances is strongly gender related, with males
attending at only two-thirds the rate of females. (3) Aside from gender,
education and income are the two strongest indicators of ballet performance
attendance. However, there has been a decline in attendance by those at the
highest education and income levels. (4) Attendance at genres of dance
other than ballet was 7.1% of the adult population. (5) American Indians
show a high level of annual attendance and participation in other dance,
with 26% attendance and 4.85% performance. (6) Males who attend other dance
performances also desire to attend additional performances at a higher rate
than females. (7) Performance of other dance genres is highest in those
ages when higher leisure activity is highest, from 18-24 and after
retirement. (8) Ballet audiences cross over to other dance performances at
a higher rate than other dance audiences cross over to ballet attendance.
(9) For both ballet and other dance, 84% of those individuals who have
taken classes or lessons do not attend any dance performance in a year,
raising questions and concerns for consideration by dance educators. (MM)

73. Long, Elizabeth, "Technology Solutions to Enhance Accessibility and
Engagement in Museums for the Visually Impaired." Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie
Mellon University, Arts Management & Technology Laboratory, 2019..
Full text PDF: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/51d98be2e4b05a25fc200cbc/t/5d265855a429a40001c7654e/1562794070925/Visual+Accessibility+Technology+for+Museums+E.+Long.pdf

74. Lopez-Sintas, Jordi; Katz-Gerro, Tally, "From exclusive to inclusive
elitists and further: Twenty years of omnivorousness and cultural diversity
in arts participation in the USA." Poetics. Oct-Dec 2005, 33, (5-6), 299 -
319. DOI: 10.1016/j.poetic.2005.10.004
Full text PDF: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/51d98be2e4b05a25fc200cbc/t/5d265855a429a40001c7654e/1562794070925/Visual+Accessibility+Technology+for+Museums+E.+Long.pdf

75. Love, Jeffrey, "Patterns of Multiple Arts Participation: An Analysis of
1982, 1985, and 1992 SPPA Data.".
Abstract: http://eric.ed.gov/?q=%22public+participation+in+the+arts%22&pg=3&id=ED410145
Analyzing data from the 1982, 1985, and 1992 Surveys of Public
Participation in the Arts (SPPA), this study defined arts participation as
involvement in a listed activity at least once in 12 months. Respondents
were considered crossover participants if they were involved in a single
art form in more than one way or if they were involved in more than one art
form in any manner listed in the surveys. What constituted crossover and
the characteristics of multi-participants as compared to non-participants
were also part of this study. Four types of statistical procedures were
used. An analysis of relationships among participants in arts activities
was made through the use of correlations cluster analyses and factor
analyses. Six major findings indicated that: (1) significant crossover was
limited to groups of activities that were related in some manner; (2)
decisions to cross participate largely involved consideration of
similarities among activities; (3) the average multiple arts participant
was over 40 years old, female, college educated, earning more than 20
thousand dollars annually, white, and residing in or near urban area; (4)
the average age of participants was rising; (5) strong relationships among
groupings of activities were based on definable similarities; and (6) the
primary explanatory factor in crossover participation was the ability to
view the arts on television or video. These themes suggest a strategy that
includes use of media outlets (especially television) as the vehicle for
involving people in participation of more than one type of art. (MM)

76. Love, Jeffrey; Klipple, Bramble C., "Arts Participation and
Race/Ethnicity: An Analysis of 1982, 1985,  and 1992 SPPA Surveys."
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, 1995.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398164.pdf
This report analyzes data from the 1982, 1985, and
1992 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA). Analysis
focuses on the role of race/ethnicity in arts participation. Arts
participation is defined as involvement in a listed activity at least
once in the past 12 months. Race is defined along categories used by
the U.S. Bureau of Census. Selected findings indicate: (1) Attendance
rates at live performing and visual arts activities are low for
members of all races. In some cases, minority group attendance is
increasing at rates faster than white attendance. (2) Differences
between white and minority participation are smaller for arts
participation through media. (3) Frequency-of-Participation analysis
indicates that although whites are more likely to attend or watch
than members of other races, the percentage of one-time attenders is
much higher than for those of other groups. Minority individuals are
more likely than whites to participate frequently. (4) The majority
of SPPA respondents do not participate personally in the creation of
visual, performing, or literary art. In general, respondents display
highest personal participation rates for weaving, quilting,
needlepoint, and sewing. (5) All races and ethnicities are more
likely to have taken music lessons and classes in art
appreciation/history than in and other artistic discipline. (6)
Members of each racial group express interest in many types of music.
However, certain types of music are preferred by members of one group
more than by members of other groups. (7) There is a general
similarity among members of each race in terms of their desire for
more arts activities. (8) The effect of sociodemographics is variable
and related to such things as content of the art form and venue in
which the art form is presented. (9) Aside from race, educational
attainment and income are key predictors of participation for all
races. (MM)

77. Mackey, Margaret, "Who reads what, in which formats, and why?." In
Moje, Elizabeth Birr; Afflerbach, Peter P.; Enciso, Patricia; Lesaux, Nonie
K., Handbook of Reading Research, Vol. V. New York, NY: Routledge,2020.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398164.pdf
This report analyzes data from the 1982, 1985, and
1992 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA). Analysis
focuses on the role of race/ethnicity in arts participation. Arts
participation is defined as involvement in a listed activity at least
once in the past 12 months. Race is defined along categories used by
the U.S. Bureau of Census. Selected findings indicate: (1) Attendance
rates at live performing and visual arts activities are low for
members of all races. In some cases, minority group attendance is
increasing at rates faster than white attendance. (2) Differences
between white and minority participation are smaller for arts
participation through media. (3) Frequency-of-Participation analysis
indicates that although whites are more likely to attend or watch
than members of other races, the percentage of one-time attenders is
much higher than for those of other groups. Minority individuals are
more likely than whites to participate frequently. (4) The majority
of SPPA respondents do not participate personally in the creation of
visual, performing, or literary art. In general, respondents display
highest personal participation rates for weaving, quilting,
needlepoint, and sewing. (5) All races and ethnicities are more
likely to have taken music lessons and classes in art
appreciation/history than in and other artistic discipline. (6)
Members of each racial group express interest in many types of music.
However, certain types of music are preferred by members of one group
more than by members of other groups. (7) There is a general
similarity among members of each race in terms of their desire for
more arts activities. (8) The effect of sociodemographics is variable
and related to such things as content of the art form and venue in
which the art form is presented. (9) Aside from race, educational
attainment and income are key predictors of participation for all
races. (MM)

78. Mauri, Caterina Adelaide; Wolf, Alexander, "Household Decisions on Arts
Consumption: How Men Can Avoid the Ballet." ECARES working paper 2016-36.
Brussels, Belgium: Universite Libre de Bruxelles, Nov 2016.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398164.pdf
This report analyzes data from the 1982, 1985, and
1992 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA). Analysis
focuses on the role of race/ethnicity in arts participation. Arts
participation is defined as involvement in a listed activity at least
once in the past 12 months. Race is defined along categories used by
the U.S. Bureau of Census. Selected findings indicate: (1) Attendance
rates at live performing and visual arts activities are low for
members of all races. In some cases, minority group attendance is
increasing at rates faster than white attendance. (2) Differences
between white and minority participation are smaller for arts
participation through media. (3) Frequency-of-Participation analysis
indicates that although whites are more likely to attend or watch
than members of other races, the percentage of one-time attenders is
much higher than for those of other groups. Minority individuals are
more likely than whites to participate frequently. (4) The majority
of SPPA respondents do not participate personally in the creation of
visual, performing, or literary art. In general, respondents display
highest personal participation rates for weaving, quilting,
needlepoint, and sewing. (5) All races and ethnicities are more
likely to have taken music lessons and classes in art
appreciation/history than in and other artistic discipline. (6)
Members of each racial group express interest in many types of music.
However, certain types of music are preferred by members of one group
more than by members of other groups. (7) There is a general
similarity among members of each race in terms of their desire for
more arts activities. (8) The effect of sociodemographics is variable
and related to such things as content of the art form and venue in
which the art form is presented. (9) Aside from race, educational
attainment and income are key predictors of participation for all
races. (MM)

79. McCarthy, Kevin F.; Ondaatje, Elizabeth H., Portrait of the Visual
Arts: Meeting the Challenges of a New Era. Santa Monica, CA: RAND
Corporation, 2005.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398164.pdf
This report analyzes data from the 1982, 1985, and
1992 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA). Analysis
focuses on the role of race/ethnicity in arts participation. Arts
participation is defined as involvement in a listed activity at least
once in the past 12 months. Race is defined along categories used by
the U.S. Bureau of Census. Selected findings indicate: (1) Attendance
rates at live performing and visual arts activities are low for
members of all races. In some cases, minority group attendance is
increasing at rates faster than white attendance. (2) Differences
between white and minority participation are smaller for arts
participation through media. (3) Frequency-of-Participation analysis
indicates that although whites are more likely to attend or watch
than members of other races, the percentage of one-time attenders is
much higher than for those of other groups. Minority individuals are
more likely than whites to participate frequently. (4) The majority
of SPPA respondents do not participate personally in the creation of
visual, performing, or literary art. In general, respondents display
highest personal participation rates for weaving, quilting,
needlepoint, and sewing. (5) All races and ethnicities are more
likely to have taken music lessons and classes in art
appreciation/history than in and other artistic discipline. (6)
Members of each racial group express interest in many types of music.
However, certain types of music are preferred by members of one group
more than by members of other groups. (7) There is a general
similarity among members of each race in terms of their desire for
more arts activities. (8) The effect of sociodemographics is variable
and related to such things as content of the art form and venue in
which the art form is presented. (9) Aside from race, educational
attainment and income are key predictors of participation for all
races. (MM)

80. McCarthy, Kevin F.; Ondaatje, Elizabeth H.; Zakaras, Laura, Gifts of
the Muse: Reframing the Debate about the Benefits of the Arts. Santa
Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 2004.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED398164.pdf
This report analyzes data from the 1982, 1985, and
1992 Surveys of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA). Analysis
focuses on the role of race/ethnicity in arts participation. Arts
participation is defined as involvement in a listed activity at least
once in the past 12 months. Race is defined along categories used by
the U.S. Bureau of Census. Selected findings indicate: (1) Attendance
rates at live performing and visual arts activities are low for
members of all races. In some cases, minority group attendance is
increasing at rates faster than white attendance. (2) Differences
between white and minority participation are smaller for arts
participation through media. (3) Frequency-of-Participation analysis
indicates that although whites are more likely to attend or watch
than members of other races, the percentage of one-time attenders is
much higher than for those of other groups. Minority individuals are
more likely than whites to participate frequently. (4) The majority
of SPPA respondents do not participate personally in the creation of
visual, performing, or literary art. In general, respondents display
highest personal participation rates for weaving, quilting,
needlepoint, and sewing. (5) All races and ethnicities are more
likely to have taken music lessons and classes in art
appreciation/history than in and other artistic discipline. (6)
Members of each racial group express interest in many types of music.
However, certain types of music are preferred by members of one group
more than by members of other groups. (7) There is a general
similarity among members of each race in terms of their desire for
more arts activities. (8) The effect of sociodemographics is variable
and related to such things as content of the art form and venue in
which the art form is presented. (9) Aside from race, educational
attainment and income are key predictors of participation for all
races. (MM)

81. McCarthy, Kevin F.; Ondaatje, Elizabeth H.; Zakaras, Laura; Brooks,
Arthur, "Gifts of the Muse: Reframing the Debate about the Benefits of the
Arts." Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 2004.
Full text PDF: http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2005/RAND_MG218.pdf

82. Meyer, Justin, "Art Museums and Their Connection to Neighborhood
Change: A Case Study of the Portland Art Museum in Oregon." University of
Michigan, 2016.
Full text PDF: http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2005/RAND_MG218.pdf

83. Mizell, Lee, "Arts Education in the U.S: 1982-2002." Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Jun 2005.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED511701.pdf

84. Mizell, Lee, "Geography and Public Participation in the Arts: Ten
Metropolitan Regions." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Jun
2005.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED511709.pdf

85. Mizell, Lee, "Geography and Public Participation in the Arts: Ten
States." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Jun 2005.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED511706.pdf

86. Mizell, Lee, "Music Preferences in the U.S.: 1982-2002." Washington,
DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Jun 2005.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED511715.pdf

87. Montenieri, Anthony James, "Digital Streaming: Technology Advancing
Access and Engagement in Performing Arts Organizations." Thesis, Goucher
College, 2018.
Full text: https://mdsoar.org/bitstream/handle/11603/10980/Montenieri%20Final%20Version.pdf?sequence=1

88. National Endowment for the Arts, "2002 Survey of Public Participation
in the Arts ." Research Division Note #81. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Jul 2003.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/81.pdf

89. National Endowment for the Arts, "2002 Survey of Public Participation
in the Arts ." Research Division Report #45. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Mar 2004.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEASurvey2004.pdf
This report describes U.S. adult arts participation in 2002. It shows
attendance at live arts events (such as concerts, plays, and dance
performances), as well as the number and percentage of adults visiting art
museums and reading literature. The survey also investigates arts
participation through broadcast and recorded media, the Internet, and
personal participation such as singing in choirs or making photographs. In
addition, the report discusses demographic and geographic differences in
arts participation, and compares 2002 rates to those found in 1982 and
1992.

90. National Endowment for the Arts, "Arts Participation 2008: Highlights
from a National Survey." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts,
Office of Research & Analysis, Jun 2009.
Full text PDF: http://www.cpanda.org/data/a00249/NEA-SPPA-brochure.pdf
The source for the following statistics, charts, and tables is the NEA’s
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts, unless otherwise specified. The
survey was conducted most recently in May 2008, and it asked a large,
nationally representative sample of adults (18 and above) about their
participation in arts events and activities over the previous 12 months.

91. National Endowment for the Arts, "Audience 2.0: How Technology
Influences Arts Participation." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, 2010.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/audience-20-how-technology-influences-arts-participation
Full text: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEAEMAPfinal.swf
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/New-Media-Report.pdf
This report describes the demographic characteristics of U.S. adults that
participated in the arts (such as concerts, plays, and dance performances)
via electronic media (e.g., TV, radio, computers and portable media
devices) in 2008, based on the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts
(SPPA). Separately, the report examines broad categories of arts
participation via Internet. The report also investigates factors
contributing to the likelihood of some Americans experiencing art through
media. Finally, the report considers the relationship between media-based
arts activities and other types of arts participation, such as live
attendance and personal arts creation.

92. National Endowment for the Arts, "Come as You Are: Informal Arts
Participation in Urban and Rural Communities." NEA Research Note #100.
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Mar 2010.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/100.pdf
Attendance at performing arts events and art museums is greater in
urbanized areas. However, urban and rural residents generally participate
in the "informal arts" (activities often unaffiliated with for-profit and
nonprofit arts organizations) at similar rates.

93. National Endowment for the Arts, "Comparing the Annual Arts Basic
Survey with the
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts." Updated 2016,.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/comparing-aabs-with-sppa.pdf

94. National Endowment for the Arts, "Demographic Differences in Arts
Attendance: 1982--1992." Research Division Note #51. National Endowment for
the Arts, Research Division, Feb 16, 1994.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/51.pdf

95. National Endowment for the Arts, "Fact Sheet: Arts Attendance and
National Endowment for the Arts Grantmaking in 2017." Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research and Analysis, 2018.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/SPPA2018_fact_sheet.pdf

96. National Endowment for the Arts, "Public Participation in the Arts:
1982 and 1992." Research Division Note #50. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, , 1993.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/50.pdf

97. National Endowment for the Arts, "Reading at Risk: A Survey of Literary
Reading in America." Research Division Report #46. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, Jun 2004.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/ReadingAtRisk.pdf

98. National Endowment for the Arts, "Reading at Risk: A Survey of Literary
Reading in America." Executive Summary. Washington, DC: National Endowment
for the Arts, 2004.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/RaRExec_0.pdf

99. National Endowment for the Arts, "Reading on the Rise: A New Chapter in
American Literacy." Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Jan
2009.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED503915.pdf

100. National Endowment for the Arts, "The Arts and Civic Engagement:
Involved in Arts, Involved in Life." Washington, DC: National Endowment for
the Arts, 2007.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/CivicEngagement.pdf

101. National Endowment for the Arts, "Three NEA Monographs on Arts
Participation: A Research Digest." NEA Research Note #101. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research &
Analysis, Feb 2011.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/101.pdf
Research Note #101 summarizes and reflects upon key findings from three
Research Reports: #52, Arts Education in America: What the Declines Mean
for Arts Participation; #53, Age and Arts Participation: A Case against
Demographic Destiny; and #54, Beyond Attendance: A Multi-Modal
Understanding of Arts Participation.

102. National Endowment for the Arts, "To Read or Not To Read: A Question
of National Consequence." Research Division Report #47. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, Nov 2007.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/ToRead.pdf

103. National Endowment for the Arts , "Demographic Differences in Arts
Participation Via Broadcast and Recorded Media: 1982--1992." Research
Division Note #52 . Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts,
Research Division, Feb 1994.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/52.pdf

104. National Endowment for the Arts , "Why Do People Attend The Arts
[Infographic]." Updated Jan 2015,.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/52.pdf

105. National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, "How a
Nation Engages with Art: Highlights from the 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts." NEA Research Report #57. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, Sep 2013
(revised Oct 2015).
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/highlights-from-2012-sppa
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/highlights-from-2012-sppa-revised-oct-2015.pdf
This report presents results from an initial analysis of the 2012 SPPA. It
contains statistics with demographic insights about U.S. adults'
participation across five modes of art activity: attending; reading books
and literature; consuming through electronic media; making and sharing; and
learning. Findings are discussed for specific art forms and trend data
provided where possible. Also includes links to additional data and
resources for researchers.

106. National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis,
"Supplementary Materials Related to the NEA's 2012 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts." Updated 2012, Accessed Dec 2014.
Full text: http://arts.gov/publications/additional-materials-related-to-2012-sppa

107. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Age, Desire and
Barriers to Increased Attendance at Performing Arts Events and Art Museums
." Research Division Note #14. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Feb 4, 1986.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/14.pdf
Data from the 1982 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts, analyzed in
terms of desire for increased participation in the following arts
activities: attending jazz, classical music, musical plays/operetta, non-
musical plays, opera and ballet performances and visiting art museums and
galleries. Age is the control variable and is broken down into seven age
groups. This note also includes data on barriers to increased participation
and these are broken down into four age groups.
About 104 million American adults (63 percent) said they wanted to attend
more jazz music concerts, classical music concerts, opera performances,
musical plays and operettas, non-musical plays, ballet and art museums in
the Survey of Public Partcipation in the Arts, 1982.
The desire to increase attendance varies substantially with age: 72 percent
(about 42 million) of the 18-34 age group, 63 percent (about 24 million) of
the 35-49 age group, 57 percent (about 21 million) of the 50-64 age group
and 48 percent (about 16 million) of the 65+ age group wanted to attend
more.

108. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Audience
Crossover: Media Participation and Attending Live Events." Research
Division Note #12. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Jun
1985.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/12.pdf

109. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Population
Location and the Barriers of 'Art Form Not Available' and 'Too Far to Go'."
Research Division Note #18. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Sep 11, 1986.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/18.pdf
This note examines data collected in the 1982 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts in terms of barriers to greater arts attendance.
The note relates these barriers to two different schema for describing
urbanicity: urban/rural place, and metropolitan/outside metropolitan areas.
40.6 million adults were projected to have one or both of these barriers.
The relevant art activities are: attending performances of jazz music,
classical music, opera, musical plays/operettas, plays, and ballet; and
visiting art museums.
Popular conversation often blurs the distinctions between terms such as
'urban place' and 'metropolitan area', and between their opposites, 'rural
place' and 'outside metropolitan area'. Such terms have precise definitions
when used in careful geographic and demographic measurements. A Standard
Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) as used in this Note is a geo-
political unit defined by the Office of Statistical Policy, Bureau of the
Budget for the 1970 Census of Population. Each SMSA must include at least
one city with 50,000 or more; or two or more cities having contiguous
boundaries and compromising, for general economic and social accounting
purposes, a single community of at least 50,000. The boundaries of an SMSA
are always county lines except in New England and Hawaii where special
rules must be used because the county form of political subdivision is not
followed. SMSA - Not Central City is the ring around the central city(ies)
within the boundaries of the SMSA. An SMSA may include both incorporated
and unincorporated places. About 230 SMSAs were defined for the 1970 Census
and are reflected in the data of the 1982 Survey of Public Participation in
the Arts.

110. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Public
Participation in the Arts by Urban and Rural Residents." Research Division
Note #16. 1986,.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/16.pdf

111. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Public
Participation in the Arts in Regional and Metropolitan Areas, 1982-1992."
Note #55. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Research
Division, Jun 1, 1995 (updated Mar 1995).
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/public-participation-arts-regional-and-metropolitan-areas-1982-1992
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/55.pdf
This note provides information on arts participation in four different
geographical regions and the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles, New York,
and Baltimore/Washington, D.C. Based on data compiled from the 1992 Survey
of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) which was conducted for the
Endowment by the U.S. Census Bureau. (See also: NEA Research Division
Report #27.)

112. National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, "Public
Participation in the Arts: 1982 and 1995 Compared." Research Division Note
# 27. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, 1987.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/27.pdf

113. National Endowments for the Arts, "U.S. Trends in Arts Attendance and
Literary Reading: 2002-2017." A First Look at Results from the 2017 Survey
of Public Participation in the Arts. Washington, DC: National Endowments
for the Arts, Office of Research and Analysis, Sep 2018.
Full text: https://www.arts.gov/publications/us-trends-arts-attendance-and-literary-reading-2002-2017
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/2017-sppapreviewREV-sept2018.pdf

114. Nichols, Bonnie, "Art-Goers in Their Communities: Patterns of Civic
and Social Engagement." NEA Research Note #98. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, Oct 2009.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/artistic-fields/Research%20%26amp%3B%20Analysis/publications?keys=sppa&sort_by=field_alphabetic_title_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/98.pdf
Data from the 2008 SPPA show that American adults who attend art museums or
live art performances are far more likely than non-attendees to vote,
volunteer, or take part in other community events. Arts participants also
show a greater likelihood of involvement in sports, collaborative art-
making, and taking their children to performances.

115. Nichols, Bonnie, "Arts and Leisure Activities: Evidence from the 2002
Survey of Public Participation." Note #89. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research and Analysis, Research Division,
Jun 2005.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/arts-and-leisure-activities-evidence-2002-survey-public-participation-arts
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/89.pdf
Analysis of the 2002 SPPA shows that arts participants, adults who read
literature, listened to classical or jazz radio, or attended a performing
arts event, were more likely than non-arts participants to engage in other
leisure activities such as attending sporting events and doing volunteer or
charity work.

116. Nichols, Bonnie, "BLS Spotlight on Statistics: Expenditures on
Admissions to the Arts, Movies, Sporting Events, and Other Entertainment."
Washington, DC: United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, Sep 2017.
Full text: https://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2997&context=key_workplace

117. Nichols, Bonnie, "Demographic Characteristics of Arts Attendance,
2002." Research Division Note #82. Washington, DC: National Endowment for
the Arts, Research Division, Jul 2003.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/demographic-characteristics-arts-attendance-2002
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/82.pdf
Reports on the attendance rates of various demographic groups at arts
events/activities based on the 2002 Survey of Public Participation in the
Arts (SPPA) and makes comparisons to similar data from the 1992 SPPA.

118. Nichols, Bonnie, "Expenditures on Admissions to the Arts, Movies,
Sporting Events, and Other Entertainment." Spotlight on Statistics.
Washington, DC: United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Sep 2017.
Full text PDF: https://www.bls.gov/spotlight/2017/expenditures-on-arts-movies-sporting-events-and-other-entertainments-and-recreational-activities/pdf/expenditures-on-arts-movies-sporting-events-and-other-entertainments-and-recreational-activities.pdf

119. Nichols, Bonnie, "State and Regional Differences in Arts
Participation: A Geographic Analysis of the 2008 SPPA." NEA Research Note
#99 . Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research &
Analysis , Dec 2009.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/99.pdf

120. Nichols, Bonnie, "Volunteering and Performing Arts Attendance: More
Evidence from the SPPA." NEA Research Note #94. Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, Mar 2007.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/volunteering-and-performing-arts-attendance-more-evidence-sppa
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/94.pdf
Regardless of a person's education level, gender, or age, performing arts
attendance increases the probability of volunteering by 25 percentage
points. Moreover, levels of activity, including arts and sports attendance,
are better predictors of volunteering than are demographic traits.

121. Novak, Jennifer L., "Considering Cultural Integration in the United
States:
Empirical Essays on Immigrants' Arts Participation." Dissertation, Pardee
RAND Graduate School, 2016. DOI: 10.7249/RGSD379
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/volunteering-and-performing-arts-attendance-more-evidence-sppa
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/94.pdf
Regardless of a person's education level, gender, or age, performing arts
attendance increases the probability of volunteering by 25 percentage
points. Moreover, levels of activity, including arts and sports attendance,
are better predictors of volunteering than are demographic traits.

122. Novak-Leonard, Jennifer L., "Immigrants, Arts Participation, and the
Shifting Cultural Landscape in the US: An Empirical Analysis." Cultural
Policy Center working paper. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago, Aug 2015.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/Research-Art-Works-UChicago.pdf

123. Novak-Leonard, Jennifer L.; Brown, Alan S., "Beyond Attendance: A
Multi-Modal Understanding of Arts Participation. Based on the 2008 Survey
of Public Participation in the Arts." Research Report #54. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Feb 2011.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED516882.pdf

124. Novak-Leonard, Jennifer L.; O'Malley, Michael K.; Truong, Eileen,
"Minding the gap: Elucidating the disconnect between arts participation
metrics and arts engagement within immigrant communities." Cultural Trends.
Apr 8, 2015,. DOI: 10.1080/09548963.2015.1031477
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED516882.pdf

125. Novak-Leonard, Jennifer; Baach, Patience; Schultz, Alexandria;
Farrell, Betty; Anderson, Will; Rabkin, Nick, "The Changing Landscape of
Arts Participation: A Synthesis of Literature and Expert Interviews."
Chicago, IL: NORC, Jul 2014.
Full text PDF: https://culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu/sites/culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu/files/irvine-literature-review.pdf

126. Novak-Leonard, Jennifer; Wong, Jaclyn; English, Ned, "A Closer Look at
Arts Engagement in California: Insights from the NEA's Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts." Chicago, IL: University of Chicago, NORC, Jan
2015.
Full text PDF: https://culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu/sites/culturalpolicy.uchicago.edu/files/SPPA_CA_Report_Jan2015.pdf

127. Novak-Leonard; Reynolds, Jennifer; Reynolds, Michael; English, Ned;
Bradburn, Norman, "California Survey of Arts & Cultural Participation:
Technical Report." Chicago, IL: NORC, May 2015.
Full text PDF: https://irvine-dot-org.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/182/attachments/Cultural_Lives_of_Californians_Technical_Report.pdf?1430502725

128. O'Hagan, John W., "Access to and participation in the arts: The case
of those with low incomes/educational attainment." Journal of Cultural
Economics. 1996, 20, (4), 269 - 282. DOI: 10.1007/BF00149232
Full text PDF: https://irvine-dot-org.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/182/attachments/Cultural_Lives_of_Californians_Technical_Report.pdf?1430502725

129. O'Hagan, John W., "Attendance at/participation in the arts by
educational level: Evidence and issues." Homo Oeconomicus. 2014, 31, (3),
411 - 429.
Full text PDF: https://irvine-dot-org.s3.amazonaws.com/documents/182/attachments/Cultural_Lives_of_Californians_Technical_Report.pdf?1430502725

130. Orend, Richard J., "Socialization and Participation in the Arts."
Research Division Report #21. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, Mar 1989.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-21.pdf
Socialization is a process by which children learn the attitudes and
orientations that will guide their behavior as adults. The analyses
described in this report use this socialization model as a basis for
describing the relationship between childhood and early adult arts-related
experiences and current arts-related leisure participation. Three basic
areas are analyzed using data collected in the 1982 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts (SPPA): (1) the patterns of socialization; (2)
the relationship of socialization patterns to current participation in
arts-related activities; and (3) the relationship of socialization patterns
to the demand for increased participation in arts-related activities. The
basic hypotheses of this analysis are: (1) that early arts-related
experiences are related to later arts-related participation, and (2) that
those individuals with a greater number of youthful experiences are more
likely to have higher current participation rates. These hypotheses are
supported by results which show strong positive relationships between arts-
related socialization experiences and current participation. Another part
of the relationship between socialization and participation is introduced
by examining the characteristics of individuals who do not exhibit the
prevailing pattern of socialization. Finally, demands for increased
participation and barriers to increased participation are examined in light
of socialization experiences. Numerous tables and figures are supplied in
the text and in an appendix. (BZ)

131. Orend, Richard J., "Socialization in the Arts." Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Apr 22, 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED283768.pdf

132. Orend, Richard J.; Keegan, Carol, "Education and Arts Participation: A
Study of Arts Socialization and Current Arts-Related Activities Using 1982
and 1992 SPPA Data." Washington, DC: 1996.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED406305.pdf
This monograph focuses on the relationship between pre-adult socialization
in the arts and subsequent arts participation, as measured in the data
collected in the 1992 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA)
conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. The study aims to increase
understanding of art socialization experiences as they relate to
educational experiences. The extent to which U.S. adults have been exposed
to arts lessons and classes as children or young adults is examined and an
attempt made to determine whether the nature and extent of the relationship
between that exposure and current participation has changed since a SPPA
conducted in 1982. The monograph is organized in 6 sections. After the
Introduction in section 1, section 2 reviews the 1982 SPPA findings on arts
socialization experiences and their relationship to current arts-related
activities. Section 3 provides detailed findings on the distribution of
socialization patterns in the adult population, and an analysis of how
socialization experiences for specific age groups have changed over time.
Section 4 explores art socialization experiences and demographic
characteristics as predictors of adult arts participation. Section 5
examines the influences of spouses on each others' current arts
participation behavior, especially in terms of the interaction of
socialization experiences and current behavior. Finally, section 6
discusses the significance of the 1982-1992 socialization data for the
development of future art audiences. (MM)

133. Patterson, Nile DeGray, "Dimensions of Diversity in U.S. Arts
Participation: Race-ethnicity, Education, Genre Origins, and Means of
Broadcast Consumption." Dissertation, Louisiana State University, 2018.
Abstract: https://digitalcommons.lsu.edu/gradschool_dissertations/4660/

134. Patterson, Nile DeGray, "Who goes to shows? Race-ethnicity and the
visual and performing arts." Cultural Sociology. 2020,. DOI:
10.1177/1749975519885467
Abstract: https://digitalcommons.lsu.edu/gradschool_dissertations/4660/

135. Peters, Monnie; Cherbo, Joni M., "Americans Personal Participation in
the Arts: 1992 ." A Monograph Describing the Data from the Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts,
1996.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED404273.pdf

136. Peterson, Richard A., "Problems in comparative research: The example
of omnivorousness." Poetics. 2005, 33, 257 - 282. DOI:
10.1016/j.poetic.2005.10.002
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED404273.pdf

137. Peterson, Richard A., "Taste as distinction." In Shepherd, John;
Devine, Kyle, The Routledge Reader on the Sociology of Music. New York, NY:
Routledge,2015.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED404273.pdf

138. Peterson, Richard A., "Understanding audience segmentation: From elite
and mass to omnivore and univore." Poetics. Aug 1992, 21, (4), 243 - 258.
DOI: 10.1016/0304-422X(92)90008-Q
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED404273.pdf

139. Peterson, Richard A.; Hull, Pamela C.; Kern, Roger M., "Age and Arts
Participation: 1982-1997." National Endowment for the Arts Research
Division Report #42. Santa Ana, CA: Seven Locks Press, 2000.
Abstract: https://archive.org/details/ageartsparticipa2000pete
Full text PDF: https://ia601508.us.archive.org/22/items/ageartsparticipa2000pete/ageartsparticipa2000pete.pdf

140. Peterson, Richard A.; Kern, Roger M., "Changing highbrow taste: From
snob to omnivore." American Sociological Review. Oct 1996, 61, (5), 900 -
907.
Full text: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2096460

141. Peterson, Richard A.; Sherkat, Darren E.; Balfe, Judith H.; Meyersohn,
Rolf , "Age and Arts Participation, with a Focus on the Baby Boom Cohort."
Research Division Report #34. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, 1996.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED410186.pdf
Using data taken from the National Endowment for the Arts' Surveys of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) which were conducted in 1982 and
1992, this report looks at the effect of age on adult arts participation in
seven benchmark or core art forms: classical music, opera, ballet,
musicals, jazz, plays, and art museums. The report examines the
participation of different cohorts between 1982 and 1992, with a special
look at the baby boomer generation. Analysis results indicate that baby
boomers and their successors, Generation X, tend to participate in most of
the seven core art forms at lower rates than their elders. It is suggested
that many baby boomers are participating in the core art forms, and
especially music, through popular culture or in other ways that are not
accounted for in these data. On that assumption, it is no accident that
their rates of participation are highest in jazz - the art form closest to
popular music - and in art museums, with which popular music competes
least. It is recommended that the nature and location of that "other"
participation be determined and that art organizations develop strategies
to lure non-participants away from their present activities to those
(traditional core art forms) that might be considered more enriching for
adults. (MM)

142. Peterson, Richard; Stimkus, Albert, "How musical tastes mark
occupational status groups." In Lamont, Michele; Fournier, Marcel,
Cultivating Differences: Symbolic Boundaries and the Making of Inequality.
152 - 186, Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press,1992.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED410186.pdf
Using data taken from the National Endowment for the Arts' Surveys of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) which were conducted in 1982 and
1992, this report looks at the effect of age on adult arts participation in
seven benchmark or core art forms: classical music, opera, ballet,
musicals, jazz, plays, and art museums. The report examines the
participation of different cohorts between 1982 and 1992, with a special
look at the baby boomer generation. Analysis results indicate that baby
boomers and their successors, Generation X, tend to participate in most of
the seven core art forms at lower rates than their elders. It is suggested
that many baby boomers are participating in the core art forms, and
especially music, through popular culture or in other ways that are not
accounted for in these data. On that assumption, it is no accident that
their rates of participation are highest in jazz - the art form closest to
popular music - and in art museums, with which popular music competes
least. It is recommended that the nature and location of that "other"
participation be determined and that art organizations develop strategies
to lure non-participants away from their present activities to those
(traditional core art forms) that might be considered more enriching for
adults. (MM)

143. Pettit, Becky, "Resources for studying public participation in and
attitudes towards the arts." Poetics. Jun 2000, 27, (5-6), 351 - 395. DOI:
10.1016/S0304-422X(00)00008-5
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED410186.pdf
Using data taken from the National Endowment for the Arts' Surveys of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) which were conducted in 1982 and
1992, this report looks at the effect of age on adult arts participation in
seven benchmark or core art forms: classical music, opera, ballet,
musicals, jazz, plays, and art museums. The report examines the
participation of different cohorts between 1982 and 1992, with a special
look at the baby boomer generation. Analysis results indicate that baby
boomers and their successors, Generation X, tend to participate in most of
the seven core art forms at lower rates than their elders. It is suggested
that many baby boomers are participating in the core art forms, and
especially music, through popular culture or in other ways that are not
accounted for in these data. On that assumption, it is no accident that
their rates of participation are highest in jazz - the art form closest to
popular music - and in art museums, with which popular music competes
least. It is recommended that the nature and location of that "other"
participation be determined and that art organizations develop strategies
to lure non-participants away from their present activities to those
(traditional core art forms) that might be considered more enriching for
adults. (MM)

144. Polzella, Donald J.; Forbis, Jeremy S., "Relationship between exposure
to music and pro-social behavior [poster]." Presented at the 28th Annual
Meeting of the Association of
Psychological Science, Chicago, IL, May 2016.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/Research-Art-Works-Dayton2.pdf

145. Rabkin, Nick; Hedberg, E.C., "Arts Education in America: What the
Declines Mean for Arts Participation." NEA Research Report #52. Washington,
DC: National Endowment for the Arts, 2011.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/2008-SPPA-ArtsLearning.pdf

146. Rife, Mary Lou; King, Damaris; Thomas, Samuel; Li, Rose , "Measuring
Cultural Engagement: A Quest for New Terms, Tools, and Techniques." Summary
of a Joint Research Symposium titled “Measuring Cultural Engagement amid
Confounding Variables: A Reality Check,” held at the Gallup headquarters in
Washington, DC, June 2–3, 2014. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Dec 2014.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/measuring-cultural-engagement.pdf

147. Ritchey, Andrew Joseph, "Sticky Tastes: The Importance of Cohort Music
Preferences." Thesis, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 2011.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/measuring-cultural-engagement.pdf

148. Robinson, John P., "A review: Survey organization differences in
estimating public participation in the arts." Public Opinion Quarterly. Aut
1989, 53, (3), 397 - 414.
Full text PDF: https://www.arts.gov/sites/default/files/measuring-cultural-engagement.pdf

149. Robinson, John P., "Arts Participation in America, 1982-1992."
National Endowment for the Arts Research Division Report #27 . Washington,
DC: National Endowment for the Arts Research Division, Nov 1993.
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/arts-participation-america-1982-1992
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-27.pdf
A summary report that analyzes the results of the 1992 national Survey of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) and provides comparisons to the
1982 SPPA findings.

150. Robinson, John P., "Arts and leisure participation among IT users:
Further evidence of time enhancement over time displacement." Social
Science Computer Review. Nov 2011, 29, (4), 470 - 480. DOI:
10.1177/0894439310385643
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/arts-participation-america-1982-1992
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-27.pdf
A summary report that analyzes the results of the 1992 national Survey of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) and provides comparisons to the
1982 SPPA findings.

151. Robinson, John P., "Sex, arts and verbal abilities: Three further
indicators of how American life is not Improving." Social Indicators
Research. Oct 2010, 99, (1), 1 - 12. DOI: 10.2307/40800989
Abstract: http://arts.gov/publications/arts-participation-america-1982-1992
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-27.pdf
A summary report that analyzes the results of the 1992 national Survey of
Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA) and provides comparisons to the
1982 SPPA findings.

152. Robinson, John P.; Hanford, Terry; Triplett, Timothy A., "Public
Participation in the Arts, 1982: Overall
Project Report." College Park, MD: University of Maryland, Survey Research
Center, Mar 1985.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED256682.pdf
More than 17,000 respondents from a representative sample of the population
were interviewed by the Bureau of the Census during 1982 about their
participation in arts activities. Separate national samples were collected
during each month of the year. Ten major areas were addressed: (1) the size
of the audience for the arts; (2) the relationship between attendance at
live performances and recorded performances; (3) geographical variation;
(4) demographic variation; (5) the impact of family background on
participation; (6) the association between arts and non-arts activities;
(7) the extent and nature of unmet needs; (8) reasons for not attending
arts activities; (9) the relationship between amateur performance and
attendance; and (10) the relationship between early introduction to the
arts and later participation. Chapter 1 provides an introduction and
background information. Chapter 2 details interview procedures and
methodology. Chapter 3 examines the questions asked about participation at
live performances of jazz, classical music, opera, musicals, plays,
ballets, art galleries, and museums, as well as questions about reading
habits. Chapter 4 examines the methodology and gives a more detailed
analysis of the questions considered in Chapter 3. Chapters 5 through 9
deal with the non-core survey questions. Chapter 10 is an overview of the
project. Extensive appendices dealing with documentation, methodology, and
a comparison with an earlier Harris poll survey are also included. (IS)

153. Robinson, John P.; Keegan, Carol A.; Hanford, Terry; Triplett, Timothy
A., "Public Participation in the Arts: Final Report on the 1982 Survey--
Volume I: Overall Project Report." Washington, DC: National Endowment for
the Arts, Research Division, Oct 1985.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED289763.pdf
This study, completed in 1985, is a replication of the 1982 "Survey of
Public Participation in the Arts." The data, collected by the Bureau of the
Census, represent the largest survey ever undertaken concerning the U.S.
public's cultural activities and attitudes. Interviews were completed with
a national sample of 13,675 persons. The survey was designed to
investigate: (1) the audience size for individual arts activities and for
arts as a whole; (2) the relationship between attendance at live
performances and participation through watching television and listening to
radio and recordings; (3) arts participation in relation to geographic
regions and community types and sizes; (4) the relationship between social,
economic, and demographic characteristics and participation in the arts;
(5) the effect of family background; (6) competition from non-art
activities; (7) the extent and nature of unsatisfied demand for arts
activities; (8) reasons for nonattendance on the part of those who would
like to attend; (9) the relationship of amateur participation to
attendance; and (10) the role of formal instruction and a young age
exposure to the arts. Almost 40 percent of the respondents had attended a
live arts performance, and 3 percent had appeared in a public performance
during the previous year. Tables and graphs are included. Appendices
include survey documentation and background on methodology, and a list of
occupation codes. (JHP)

154. Robinson, John P.; Keegan, Carol A.; Karth, Marcia; Triplett, Timothy
A., "Public Participation in the Arts: Project Report for SPA '85."
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, 1985.
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/public-participation-in-the-arts-project-report-for-spa-85
The 1985 Survey of Participation in the Arts (SPA '85) is a replication of
perhaps the largest single survey ever conducted on the cultural activities
and attitudes of the American public. In this national survey, interviews
were completed with a probability sample of 13,675 respondents across the
country. The SPA '85 included a separate national sample of about 2200
respondents over age 18 in each of the first six months of 1985.

155. Robinson, John P.; Keegan, Carol A.; Karth, Marcia; Triplett, Timothy
A., "Survey of Public Participation in the Arts: Volume II. Changes in
American's Participation, 1982-1985." Final Report. Washington, DC:
National Endowment for the Arts, Mar 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED289764.pdf
The primary purpose of this report was to compare data obtained from the
1982 and 1985 "Survey of Public Participation in the Arts." Comparisons of
core questions and responses indicate that: (1) 1985 results are very close
to those obtained in 1982; (2) there was a statistically significant
decline in musical theater performance attendance; and (3) the only
performing arts attendance group to increase was ballet attendees.
Recreational activity participation increased in exercise related
activities and declined in movie attendance, amusement park activities,
gardening, and sewing crafts. Declines were also found in participation
through watching plays and musical theater on television, and increases
were noted for participation in arts related craft classes. An increased
number of U.S. adults indicated that they liked jazz, soul/blues, rock,
mood/easy listening, and hymns/gospel music, while preferences for
country/western music declined. Tables are included, and appendices report:
(1) the demographic predictors of participation; (2) demographic
comparisons of 1982 and 1985 samples; and (3) differences by 3-year age
cohort categories. (JHP)

156. Rosenstein, Carole, "Diversity and Participation in the Arts Insights
from the Bay Area." Washington, DC: Urban Institute, Oct 2005.
Full text PDF: http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/alfresco/publication-pdfs/311252-Diversity-and-Participation-in-the-Arts.PDF

157. Rossman, Gabriel; Peterson, Richard A., "The instability of omnivorous
cultural taste over time." Poetics. Oct 2015, 52, 139 - 153. DOI:
10.1016/j.poetic.2015.05.004
Full text PDF: http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/alfresco/publication-pdfs/311252-Diversity-and-Participation-in-the-Arts.PDF

158. Rushton, Michael, "U.S. trends in arts attendance and literary
reading: 2002-2017: A first look at results from the 2017 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts." Cultural Trends. 2019, 28, (1), 75 - 76. DOI:
10.1080/09548963.2019.1559469
Full text PDF: http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/alfresco/publication-pdfs/311252-Diversity-and-Participation-in-the-Arts.PDF

159. Rushton, Michael; Landesman, Rocco, Creative Communities: Art Works in
Economic Development. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2013.
Full text PDF: http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/alfresco/publication-pdfs/311252-Diversity-and-Participation-in-the-Arts.PDF

160. Schuster, J. Mark Davidson, "An Inquiry into the Geographic Correlates
of Government Arts Funding: A Research Monograph Based on the 1985 Survey
of Public Participation in the Arts." Mar 1988.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED298023.pdf
The geographic distribution of arts funding by the National Endowment for
the Arts (NEA) and selected state art agencies is examined in this report.
Data collected from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts was
used to determine if variations in geographic participation rates help
explain differences in government support of the arts. Funding patterns for
jazz, music, opera, musical plays, drama, ballet, and art museums were
examined through an analysis of arts-related financial support in the 14
most populous U.S. states. Findings indicated that there was not a
statistically significant relationship between arts funding and population
distribution. However, there appeared to be a strong relationship between
government funding and the relative distribution of arts organizations, and
generally the relationship between government arts funding and the
distribution of artists was positive. Data were tested using a number of
selected models, and comparisons among them are provided. Fourteen tables
and 28 endnotes are included, and appendices contain 3 additional tables
showing: (1) dependent and independent variables for all 50 states; (2)
participation rates for the 14 most populous states; and (3) subregions'
composition and participation rates. (JHP)

161. Schuster, J. Mark Davidson, "Perspectives on the American Audience for
Art Museums: A Research Monograph Based on the 1985 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts. Revised Edition." Feb 1988.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED294780.pdf
This monograph utilizes data from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPA '85) to explore the audience composition of United States
art museums and galleries. Part 1 focuses on: (1) demographic variables
affecting U.S. adult attendance rates; (2) a comparison of the SPPA '85
research data and the 1984 "Americans and the Arts" studies; and (3) a
comparison of United States, Great Britain, France, Sweden, and Canada
(Quebec) attendance patterns. Part 2 examines barriers to art museum or
gallery attendance, while part 3 explores audience socialization factors
that affect attendance. Part 4 presents an audience profile based on
demographic characteristics and compares it to the general population's
profile. An appendix describes an exploratory analysis of the relationship
between participation rates and the number of art museums. Tables and
graphs are included. (JHP)

162. Schuster, J. Mark Davidson, "The Audience for American Art Museums."
Research Division Report #23. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, 1992.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-23.pdf
This study uses data from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the
Arts (SPPA) to explore the composition of the audience for art museums and
art galleries in the United States. Organized into four parts, part 1
reports that when asked if they had visited an art museum or art gallery in
the 12 months preceding their 1985 SPPA interview, 22 percent of the adult
population said that they had. The report goes on to present art museum
participation rates across a variety of demographic variables--income,
education, age, gender, race, geographic distribution, and occupation. This
section also compares the 1985 SPPA participation rates with those of the
Americans and the Arts Studies, and with participation rates from Great
Britain, France, Sweden, and Quebec. A statistical model designed to
predict the probability of attendance based on demographic factors also is
developed in part 1, but this model's low predictive ability leads to the
conclusion that other variables need to be examined. Part 2 of the report
focuses on three SPPA socialization questions that are most likely to be
linked to attendance at art museums: whether or not, and at what ages, the
respondent had ever taken lessons in the visual arts; whether or not, and
at what ages, the respondent had taken art appreciation classes; and
whether or not, and the frequency with which, parents had taken the
respondent to museums. An analysis of these questions reveals that all
three of these factors show a strong relationship with increased
attendance. Part 3 of the report examines unsatisfied demand and barriers
to attendance. Part 4 presents a profile of the museum audience and
examines how the demographic characteristics of the SPPA respondents are
distributed among the museum audience and how this audience profile
compares to the profile of the general population. An appendix that
presents the mathematical results from the three logit analyses (a
variation of regression analysis) that were conducted with ..

163. Seaman, Bruce Alan, "Attendance and Public Participation in the
Performing Arts: A Review of the Empirical Literature." Andrew Young School
of Policy Studies Research Paper Series No. 06-25. Atlanta, GA: Georgia
State University, Department of Economics, Aug 2005. DOI:
10.2139/ssrn.895099
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-23.pdf
This study uses data from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the
Arts (SPPA) to explore the composition of the audience for art museums and
art galleries in the United States. Organized into four parts, part 1
reports that when asked if they had visited an art museum or art gallery in
the 12 months preceding their 1985 SPPA interview, 22 percent of the adult
population said that they had. The report goes on to present art museum
participation rates across a variety of demographic variables--income,
education, age, gender, race, geographic distribution, and occupation. This
section also compares the 1985 SPPA participation rates with those of the
Americans and the Arts Studies, and with participation rates from Great
Britain, France, Sweden, and Quebec. A statistical model designed to
predict the probability of attendance based on demographic factors also is
developed in part 1, but this model's low predictive ability leads to the
conclusion that other variables need to be examined. Part 2 of the report
focuses on three SPPA socialization questions that are most likely to be
linked to attendance at art museums: whether or not, and at what ages, the
respondent had ever taken lessons in the visual arts; whether or not, and
at what ages, the respondent had taken art appreciation classes; and
whether or not, and the frequency with which, parents had taken the
respondent to museums. An analysis of these questions reveals that all
three of these factors show a strong relationship with increased
attendance. Part 3 of the report examines unsatisfied demand and barriers
to attendance. Part 4 presents a profile of the museum audience and
examines how the demographic characteristics of the SPPA respondents are
distributed among the museum audience and how this audience profile
compares to the profile of the general population. An appendix that
presents the mathematical results from the three logit analyses (a
variation of regression analysis) that were conducted with ..

164. Silber, Bonnie; Triplett, Tim, "A Decade of Arts Engagement: Findings
from the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts, 2002-2012." NEA
Research Report #58. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts,
Office of Research & Analysis, Jan 2015.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/2012-sppa-feb2015.pdf
This report synthesizes findings across several modes of arts participation
(attending the visual and performing arts, reading literature,
creating/performing art, using digital media to consume art, and learning
within the arts) to show how many American adults--and from which
backgrounds--have engaged in art throughout the decade of 2002 to 2012.
Based on the NEA's Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA),
conducted in partnership with the U.S. Census Bureau.

165. Skinner, Sarah J.; Ekelund, Robert B., Jr.; Jackson, John D., "Art
museum attendance, public funding, and the business cycle." American
Journal of Economics and Sociology. Apr 2009, 68, (2), 491 - 516. DOI:
10.2307/27739781
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/2012-sppa-feb2015.pdf
This report synthesizes findings across several modes of arts participation
(attending the visual and performing arts, reading literature,
creating/performing art, using digital media to consume art, and learning
within the arts) to show how many American adults--and from which
backgrounds--have engaged in art throughout the decade of 2002 to 2012.
Based on the NEA's Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA),
conducted in partnership with the U.S. Census Bureau.

166. Smith, David H.; John P. Robinson, "Evidence from Two U.S.
Representative National Sample Surveys for Empirical Clustering among
Different
Leisure Activities in a Leisure General Activity Pattern/LGAP." Chestnut
Hill, MA: Boston College, Department of Sociology,, forthcoming 2017..
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/2012-sppa-feb2015.pdf
This report synthesizes findings across several modes of arts participation
(attending the visual and performing arts, reading literature,
creating/performing art, using digital media to consume art, and learning
within the arts) to show how many American adults--and from which
backgrounds--have engaged in art throughout the decade of 2002 to 2012.
Based on the NEA's Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPPA),
conducted in partnership with the U.S. Census Bureau.

167. Stallings, Stephanie N.; Mauldin, Bronwyn, "Developing a Common
Framework for Public Participation in the Arts: A Review of Recent
Literature." Los Angeles County Arts Commission, Aug 2016.
Full text PDF: http://www.lacountyarts.org/pubfiles/LACAC_PubEngLitRev.pdf

168. Stern, Mark, "Age and Arts Participation: A Case Against Demographic
Destiny." NEA Research Report #53. Washington, DC: National Endowment for
the Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, Feb 2011.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/2008-SPPA-Age.pdf

169. Swan, Jennifer, "Decreasing arts attendance: What you may not know."
Nonprofit Quarterly. Jan 19, 2015,.
Full text: http://nonprofitquarterly.org/2015/01/19/decreasing-arts-attendance-what-you-may-not-know/

170. Teachout, Terry, "Can jazz be saved? The audience for America's great
art form is withering away." The Wall Street Journal. Aug 9, 2009, .
Full text: http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970204619004574320303103850572

171. Tepper, Steven J., "Fiction reading in America: Explaining the gender
gap." Poetics. May 2000, 27, (4), 255 - 275. DOI: 10.1016/S0304-
422X(00)00003-6
Full text: http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970204619004574320303103850572

172. Tepper, Steven J., "Making Sense of the Numbers: Estimating Arts
Participation in America." Working Paper Series, 4 . Princeton, NJ: Center
for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies, Princeton University, Win 1998.
Full text PDF: https://www.princeton.edu/~artspol/workpap/WP04%20-%20Tepper.pdf
This article explores why estimates of arts participation in America
diverge dramatically. It focuses on two similar surveys - the General
Social Survey (GSS) and the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts
(SPPA) - that produced very different estimates of attendance at museums,
classical music concerts and dance performances. Comparing the design of
each survey, this paper examines several possible explanations to account
for the divergent estimates, including sample composition and selection
bias, question wording and context, and survey design.

173. Tepper, Steven J.; Ivey, Bill, Engaging Art: The Next Great
Transformation of America's Cultural Life. New York, NY: Routledge, 2008.
Full text PDF: https://www.princeton.edu/~artspol/workpap/WP04%20-%20Tepper.pdf
This article explores why estimates of arts participation in America
diverge dramatically. It focuses on two similar surveys - the General
Social Survey (GSS) and the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts
(SPPA) - that produced very different estimates of attendance at museums,
classical music concerts and dance performances. Comparing the design of
each survey, this paper examines several possible explanations to account
for the divergent estimates, including sample composition and selection
bias, question wording and context, and survey design.

174. Thompson, Diane R.; Bushnell, Lidia E., Reading: Learning, Writing,
and Disorders. New York, NY, USA: Nova, 2009.
Full text PDF: https://www.princeton.edu/~artspol/workpap/WP04%20-%20Tepper.pdf
This article explores why estimates of arts participation in America
diverge dramatically. It focuses on two similar surveys - the General
Social Survey (GSS) and the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts
(SPPA) - that produced very different estimates of attendance at museums,
classical music concerts and dance performances. Comparing the design of
each survey, this paper examines several possible explanations to account
for the divergent estimates, including sample composition and selection
bias, question wording and context, and survey design.

175. Trescott, Jacqueline, "NEA reports new habits lead to broader arts
participation." Washington Post. Feb 24, 2011, .
Full text: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/24/AR2011022407296.html

176. Triplett, Tim, "Can your spouse accurately report your activities? An
examination of proxy reporting." Survey Practice. 2013, 3, (1),.
Full text: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/24/AR2011022407296.html

177. Upright, Craig Barton, "Social capital and cultural participation:
Spousal influences on attendance at arts events." Poetics. Apr 2004, 32,
(2), 129 - 143. DOI: 10.1016/j.poetic.2004.02.002
Full text: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/24/AR2011022407296.html

178. Waterman, David; Schechter, Russell; Contractor, Noshir S.,
"Overcoming barriers to the live arts: Can the media compensate?." Journal
of Cultural Economics. Dec 1, 1991, 15, (2), 19 - 40.
Full text: http://www.academia.edu/2619627/Overcoming_barriers_to_the_live_arts_Can_the_media_compensate

179. Waterman, David; Schechter, Russell; Contractor, Noshir S., "Public
Participation in the Arts via the Media." Washington, DC: National
Endowment for the Arts, Sep 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED290674.pdf
This report examined media audiences for the arts using data gathered in
the Survey of Public Participation in the Arts (SPA) covering approximately
18,000 U.S. adults in 1982 and 16,000 adults in 1985. The SPA questionnaire
covers the use of television, radio, and recordings as a means to
participate in seven particular arts activities, which include jazz music,
classical music, opera, musical stage plays or operettas, non-musical stage
plays, ballet, and the collections of art museums or galleries. The data
showed that well over half of all adults participated in at least one of
the seven art forms either through television, radio, or recordings during
the past year. Annual reaches of the SPA art forms through media are in
most cases several times as great as the reaches of comparable live events
or activities. Media audiences for the arts consistently have an average
higher income and education level and are more likely to live in urban
areas. Residents of non-urbanized areas do not substitute media
participation for live participation any more than do residents of urban
areas. Overall, the media provides a window to the world of the most
talented artists and arts organizations. Tables are used throughout the
report to illustrate the findings. Appendices include the SPA questionnaire
and the comparative demographic and geographic determinants of arts
attendance and media use.

180. West, Jerry, "Public Participation in the Arts: Demand and Barriers."
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Research Office, 1987.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

181. Williams, Kevin; Keen, David, "2008 Survey of Public Participation in
the Arts." Research Report #49. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Office of Research & Analysis, Nov 2009.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

182. Younkin, Peter; Kashkooli, Keyvan, "Stay true to your roots? Category
distance, hierarchy, and the performance of new entrants in the music
industry." Organization Science. in press 2020,. DOI:
10.1287/orsc.2019.1323
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

183. Yuksek, Durmus A.; Dumais, Susan A.; Kamo, Yoshinori, "Trends in the
relative influence of education and income on Highbrow taste, 1982-2012."
Sociological Inquiry. 2019, 89, (3), 508 - 531. DOI: 10.1111/soin.12293
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

184. Zill, Nicholas; Robinson, John, "The generation X difference."
American Demographics. Apr 1995, 17, 24 - 29.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

185. Zill, Nicholas; Winglee, Marianne, "Literature reading in the United
States: Data from national surveys and their policy implications." Book
Research Quarterly. Spr 1989, 5, (1), 24 - 58. DOI: 10.1007/BF02683792
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED287764.pdf
Initiated by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), this project
analyzed the public's desire to attend performing arts events and art
museums and also reviewed barriers to such attendance. Goals of the study
were to identify the characteristics of persons who stated: (1) a desire to
increase their attendance at arts events; and (2) different reasons for not
increasing their attendance at such events. Data from the 1982 and 1985
Survey of Public Participation in the Arts were used to investigate these
areas of interest. Findings indicated that there is a strong desire among
U.S. adults to attend arts events and that this desire is related to both
prior level of attendance at performing arts events and a variety of socio-
economic characteristics. Other factors include: (1) interest in mass
media; (2) involvement in art lessons; and (3) participation in other types
of leisure and recreational activities. People who have a stronger desire
to attend more arts activities tend to be younger, more educated, and more
affluent than their nonparticipating counterparts. Time factors, cost, and
nonavailability are most often named as barriers to increasing attendance.
Future studies should focus on other activities which compete with arts for
people's time and money. Tables are included. (JHP)

186. Zill, Nicholas; Winglee, Marianne, "Who Reads Literature? The Future
of the United States as a Nation of Readers." Research Division Report #22.
Washington, DC: National Endowment for the Arts, Research Division, 1990.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-22.pdf

187. d'Harnoncourt, Anne; DiMaggio, Paul J.; Perry, Marilyn; Wood, James
N., "The museum and the public." In Feldstein, Martin, The Economics of Art
Museums. 35 - 60, Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press,1991.
Abstract: http://www.nber.org/chapters/c11637
Full text PDF: http://www.nber.org/chapters/c11637.pdf

188. van den Broek, Andries, "Arts participation and the three faces of
time: A reflection on disentangling the impact of life stage, period and
socialization on arts participation, exemplified by an analysis of the US
arts audience." Cultural Trends. 2013, 22, (1), 46 - 53. DOI:
10.1080/09548963.2013.757898
Abstract: http://www.nber.org/chapters/c11637
Full text PDF: http://www.nber.org/chapters/c11637.pdf
